so I got a question from a patreon
supporter named James hey James what up
I generally just use people's first
names and not their last names in these
interactions um James is asking a
question that I'm both interested to
answer and that I had many videos on in
the past and that I probably should make
new videos about in the future
James is asking me about my life in
France he says he did watch my video in
the past called why I am NOT French that
video it's really weird I've gone back
and looked at that once that video was
recorded during a really really bleak
time in my life I think that was back
when I was applying for jobs and hadn't
found a job yet
when it was really not clear if I was
gonna be learning Japanese or Chinese or
what I was doing in university and my
career in this couple years but for a
lot of reasons probably also you know my
divorce and what-have-you
I was really really down when I recorded
that video and it shows that's a real
like not even the content of what I'm
saying but the tone of that and the last
time I watched that video it did it well
live-streaming this talking to people I
was playing it was like wow like I was
really really low when I recorded that
video I thought God at some point I have
to go back and do why I am NOT French
version to you know cover that same
material at twice the pace and like you
know even if your talk even if you're
telling a sad story you shouldn't really
be sad while you're telling the story it
doesn't it doesn't work on camera so
well but yeah my experience living in
France and attempting to become a French
citizen and so on it's it's worth
talking about it's worth reflecting on
and of course positively and negatively
my experience with France has shaped my
whole life and will continue to shape
the rest of my life it's still a big
deal I really don't know I don't think
my daughter is gonna grow up in France
much but it's not impossible it's not
impossible that France will be her her
home and that I will have to be more
involved with France the future I doubt
it but it's possible
so look James writes and asked to me he
says since you're interested in replying
to patreon supporters questions and not
so many up and put to you recently
because I
already answered all your question great
ever since I watched your video why I'm
not French I've been curious as to how
you survived as a vegan in a country
that is so anti vegan and right he
alludes to the fact that it's a little
bit easier in Paris because there's so
many foreigners in Paris as opposed to
beyond the provinces whoo so look and he
then asks how useful is it to know
French is a language anyway ok yeah
Frances help for vegans France is hell
there is no point you know uh and one of
the guys I knew in France he was a
former employee of peda People for the
Ethical Treatment he said pet as policy
was that they really made a big effort
to mmm you know promote peda within
Germany promote veganism in places like
the Netherlands Denmark but they felt
that France was hopeless after years and
years of experience of them trying to
promote veganism and animal rights maybe
that France is really especially
hopeless the culture of taking pride in
meat and cigarettes and alcohol and of
being extremely defensive really
offensive if anyone dares to question a
lifestyle based on constant indulgence
in meat and cigarettes and alcohol this
this is like the national pride of
France and this is a distinctive
national characteristic now of course
there are exceptions to the rule of
course one out of a million Frenchmen
have questioned and challenged this
culture today tradition but that's what
you're gonna deal with every day now why
is it in the French context that I'm
discussing meat in the same category as
cigarettes and alcohol because I do
think in that culture that's very much
how they're received that meat is
imagined as being one of the good things
in life one of the indulgences one of
the enjoyments and they will you know
passionately defend a lifestyle that's
not just incidentally about the
enjoyment of the good things in life but
a lifestyle that's really predicated
that has its mean focus it puts at its
center of gravity indulging in these
these things even if it kills you like I
think there's maybe no other country in
the world where if you tell someone that
you know eating meat causes heart
attacks they will completely accept that
and continue they have no interest you
know because for them meat is in the
same category as cigarettes and alcohol
and they are deeply committed to
justifying the destruction of their own
body the destruction of their own mind
etc under the heading of the enjoyment
of life if the enjoyment of life entails
suicide by a thousand tiny cuts they are
down for it that is bedrock in French
culture so you're never ever gonna make
any progress in France with the health
based argument now I mentioned this I
think this isn't any thought I've told
before maybe many times before I forget
I went to one vegan event in France in
particular what I've been called vegan
at outreach or vegan activism whatever
and you know what you heard from the
French was after they had seen this kind
of traumatizing documentary well what
you say may be true but everything in
moderation
now the everything in moderation man
sure in France means cigarettes and
alcohol and meat seven days a week
most likely three meals a day like well
their idea of moderation is total
self-indulgence all the time that is the
French idea of moderation like the
French idea of moderation is getting
drunk during your lunch break while
you're on the job but then having a cup
of coffee before you go back to work to
try to straighten yourself out like it
is really I mean causes this is this is
so I really grew up with questioning
within Canada when I was a young a
teenager what did people mean by balance
what did people mean by moderation and
what I found is that these are
watch words these are meaningless
meaningless watch words that people use
not even to justify their indulgences
just to distract you from it's like
there isn't even a justification it's
just a distraction it's like yeah well
you know you're killing you know
millions of animals and destroying the
world's you caught
ecology and you're destroying your own
health yeah moderation answer any of
those concerns yeah well you know like
you know water pollution caused as a
knock-on effect of the the median
history yeah
moderation it's just ridiculous but they
they believe that I mean this is not a
trivial or shallow problem in French
culture this goes right to the bone so
when you're living in France that's what
you're dealing with and you know you're
dealing with with a culture that is not
incidentally anti-vegan it's profoundly
committed to being to being anti vegan
and I mean I got to see that from so
many different angles including the
hatred against myself my wife real
hatred really worth saying as such from
medical doctors and nurses from people
in those positions where their
assumptions about me and my wife because
we were vegan it's not enough to say
there were negative assumptions they
hated us for being vegan and you know in
one case I got to see a doctor flip
where this doctor worked with us long
enough to realize that we were actually
rational and pro science and into
empirical methods and [ __ ] it was
[ __ ] despicable and like you know oh
my god this is oh look this also relates
to me so it's a whole different topic
but the French culture of authority of
authoritarianism and how medical
professionals fit into that that's also
a deep deep you know aspect to the
culture their own you know respect for
authority and disrespect for you if
you're challenging Authority and you
know I mean all the time we were meeting
doctors doctors and nurses those types
of people we're
gardeners who said things that were
considered true like maybe 70 years ago
sometimes 50 years ago like what they
were saying was legit medical science
but 50 years at a date minimum you know
and you know the science of nutrition
really has changed but if you're talking
to a doctor who is 50 years old who
maybe you know who went to university 30
years ago um you know went to med school
30 years ago they were using a textbook
that was published 30 years before that
and their professor in the med school
was 60 years old it is very easy to get
into a kind of lag where you're meeting
people who are experts but their
expertise is lagging so far or behind
and then again you combine this with
this ultra authoritarian culture you
know so have you just got a comment
coming I'm live streaming want to record
this David asks are you sure that this
is French culture or is it more of a
general Western culture I know many
America that know David I do I do feel
confident telling you this is really
French culture I'm talking about and
I'll give you a real simple example so
in Canada we produce cheese our
government takes taxpayers money to
support the dairy industry so we can
produce cheese our Canadians proud of
their cheese no do Canadians have the
delusion that cheese is what makes
Canada great no in France you will
literally meet people who believe that
cheese that French cheese is what makes
France great it's the national destiny
and the national mission and it's what
France is all about and that therefore
the government to support you will meet
people in France who really believe that
some kind of advanced cured beef or you
know foie gras foie gras is legislated
as special protected national patrimony
if you guys know foie gras is a type of
duck fat that involves torturing the
duck it's an especially brutal form of
meat production and they so it's that's
their alleged legislation government
policy they believe that so no not
everywhere is like France
and I mean the French idea of democracy
is very very different from the American
idea of democracy
even the French idea of a university
classroom so in a French political
science classroom cos Po there is no
debate
there is no Socratic method there is one
man who gets to talk sitting at a table
that's on a stage at the front nobody
else gets to say a word and that's it
it's a it is a purely top-down lecture
that's how they teach political science
now in the United States you know a
stereotypical political science you know
especially an advanced level course is
gonna be this kind of [ __ ] American
style workshop where people sit in a
circle and the professor pretends that
he respects the ideas of the students
and the students all know that they
should repeat back to the professor his
own ideas you know both political
science and Business School in the
United States use a lot of round table
formats and they talk about Socratic
method and you know it's a bit
hypocritical but still no it is very
very different these aspects of French
culture I'm talking about um so look at
me and the other huge issue here this is
the first thing I thought of when he
asked about how hard is it to be vegan
in in France dude
hygiene hygiene [ __ ] terrible
terrible in France the vast majority
people of France have no [ __ ] concept
that if they touch a dog they can't then
touch food with their bare hands and
sell it to you they'll drop things on
the floor or on the ground outdoors and
pick them up and eat them like when you
do find vegan food like bread you don't
want to [ __ ] buy it because it's been
handled in such filthy conditions no no
concept of the the germ theory of
disease the biological reality that
contact spreads germs and viruses so
even when you do find something vegan if
you're paying attention it's so goddamn
filthy you don't want to eat that either
you know
so who the yeah it's heroin
it's absolutely [ __ ] terrible how did
I cope I bought chickpeas I bought you
know not canned chickpeas dry chickpeas
in a bag and every [ __ ] day I made my
own hummus for myself and my wife and
when I was there we eventually ordered
protein in the mail vegan protein powder
before that vegan protein powder came
that was the most miserable [ __ ] time
of my life I could not find anything
that was vegan that contained protein at
all
in France I went through a really really
rough time just eating bread was [ __ ]
abominable it was just terrible sorry
you know and also got to see this so I
was in the South of France where it's
hot but when we got there in winter they
don't have fruit at a season they're not
importing fruit and vegetables from
North Africa and Spain let alone Mexico
in the winter so like even the
availability of fruit vegetables a lot
of it like okay there are great grapes
for one month of the year grapes or
whatever example you want but then when
in the winter when they're not in season
because everyone's eating so much meat
there's no market for it they're not
they don't have that stuff so even that
was shockingly poor when I when I got
there in the winter on that trip I've
lived in France and a few different time
of being in France and a few different
homes but really when I lived there and
applied to become a citizen
it was absolutely [ __ ] terrible and
everywhere we went we were hounded and
disrespected and treated like [ __ ] most
memorably by medical doctors and so on
but sure I mean like you know yeah
sitting in a restaurant and paying to
have [ __ ] flatbread with olive oil
you know have pizza with no cheese on it
is a ripoff and it's [ __ ] awful and
that's about the only thing you can get
in the South of France you can have them
make you a pizza without any cheese on
it so you know that's basically just
flatbread but you're paying the same
amount that someone else is paying that
the same meal with meat and
so you're getting just bread for $20 or
whatever it's it's just [ __ ] awful
and as is inevitable
you know the tiny number of people you
meet there who are vegan tend to be
insane
and you know you got to ask a vote
nurture versus nature on that I know
this is like an overused trope the
nurture versus nature hypothesis but you
wonder is was this person crazy before
they became vegan or is this someone who
became vegan but they're coping with
this same [ __ ] horrible stress I got
to cope with and it's driven them crazy
or it's drawn out there you know that
side of their personality you know what
I mean you got to ask yourself that
question
when you uh you know when you meet those
people and you know god damn I'm where I
was in the South of France basically
everything was infested with cockroaches
not even complaining it's a beautiful
part of the world but everything is
infested with cockroaches
I was in Perpignan near the border with
Spain French Catalonia you know Catalan
borders man if you're gonna live there
and you I had a newborn baby I was a
vegan but I was killing cockroaches cuz
I don't want my daughter or my daughter
plays on the floor you know she's a babe
you crawls I would lay down clean mats
and every day I would scrub and clean
those mats you'd have a nice soft you
know rubbery set of mats to play on a
newborn baby I'm not gonna let I don't
want cockroaches crawling on my baby
daughter so I'm killing cockroaches
everyone all the vegans I talked to
they're all of them we're killing
cockroaches we talked about it I mean
it's a good it's an interesting type of
conversation you know I'm vegan you're
vegan you know we talked to all its the
phases we talked about cat food there
were vegans there who were buying cat
food that was made out of meat and you
know talk about how they feel about it
they were vegans they're killing
cockroaches I remember the one guy who
opened a vegan restaurant really a vegan
cafe you try to sit there but he was so
[ __ ] crazy
he would come out and lecture us like
not even starting conversation like I'm
sitting there with my wife and infant
daughter just trying to [ __ ] relax and
eat a vegan like a vegan tiramisu a
vegan pudding and you know [ __ ] relax
for five minutes as the parent of a
newborn infant before I go back to my
apartment and this guy comes out of the
kitchen and just stands there Theodore
table with a [ __ ] leaflet and is
lecturing you about how there's
scientific evidence that you know
cockroaches are highly intelligent and
then if you're really vegan you
shouldn't kill khakha yeah I sympathize
that guy that guy also he was doing the
thing that you know you see some vegans
on YouTube do but who's doing real like
he really exercised a lot
he was really muscular and when people
came in and asked him like if you could
be here with literally flex his muscles
he would wear a tight t-shirt roll his
t-shirt he said look I'm vegan and I'm
really pumped up I wonder he probably
was taking steroids I wonder I wonder if
his behavior was so crazy because he was
on some steroids and some you know
testosterone booster or hormone that
probably explains cuz his behavior was
really erratic but he was he was he was
in good shape he was a muscular guy he
was a very lean very muscular guy still
not good-looking life is unfair but yeah
and you know whenever meat eaters would
come into that restaurant of course
they'd end up just feeling alienated and
convinced that vegans are insane and the
food was terrible the desserts were okay
but the food was terrible anyway so yeah
I mean look the other question here is
is it actually worthwhile knowing French
it is if you are Canadian and you want
to get a job in politics or in the
Canadian government so for me it's been
a big big question whether or not you
should learn French otherwise if you're
from anywhere else the French know it
their own language has become less and
less useful and they especially resent
that in exactly the part of the world I
lived in for so many years in Cambodia
and Laos Cambodia Laos in Vietnam were
formerly French colonies and the French
would like
believe that French is still an
important language there but of course
it really is not so yeah we all got to
make choices in life I talked to this
guy recently it's we mentioned a few
times he was doing humanitarian work in
well around Syria so he was doing
humanitarian work with Syrian refugees
but just over the border fleeing from
outside of Syria and you know was asking
him you know are you really sure that
Arabic is the right language you want to
learn in terms of having a positive
connection with veganism or a negative
connection with vegans of connection to
your own political interest and activism
and so on and for anyone looking at
learning French you would have to ask
those same questions and as you will
have gathered committing to learning
French would be a very very difficult
decision to make even for myself even
for someone who has a past and present
family connection to France and still to
this day when I look at university
options within Canada that say fluency
and French require and I sit down and do
the math and ask can I justify you know
taking the time now to improve my
ability in French language and the
numbers just do not pencil it just does
not make sense for me to make that
commitment and try to pick up and
improve French's language but we'll see
guys if you stick with me here on
patreon or watching my channel on
YouTube
you will get to see for yourself to what
extent learning Chinese is or is not
useful in the rest of my life and I will
never know I may be able to look back
and say how much different my life would
have been or maybe how much better my
life would have been if instead I'd put
that effort into learning French